## Node.js Foundation Technical Governance Sync
April 9, 2015
12:00pm PDT
via GoToMeeting

Attendees:  Mike Dolan, Alexis Campailla, Chris Dickinson, Colin Ihrig, Isaac Schlueter, James Snell, Jeremiah Senkpiel, Julien Gilli, Michael Dawson, Mikeal Rogers, Scott Nicholas, Steven Loomis, TJ Fontaine, Todd Benzies, Todd Moore

Goal:  Overall Development Process -- walk through document and see where we have consensus, and in areas where we can’t, let’s iterate on for the next call.  James Snell reviewed the guiding principles in the below github:

https://github.com/jasnell/dev-policy/

## Guiding Principles
- TJ -- matches his expectations. <add User extensible small core>

## Collaborators
- The Foundation TSC will be made of the combined TSC
- People can become collaborators by TSC decision only (can nominate themselves or TSC members can nominate them)
- A question was raised about what “TSC decision” means.
- The process would follow what is documented in the TSC Charter
  - James answered that the decision making process would be the lazy consensus model documented in the TSC charter. There was generally agreement that TSC action is not required for every addition of a collaborator.
  - Mike Dolan note to Scott N. → We need to align the reference to the individual Collaborators’ DCO to the IP Policy
- Collaborator is literally anyone that is a Github Collaborator
  - A few people have been promoted to Collaborator to help triage tickets
- Need to better define what “significant contributions”  and “contribution” means

## Accepting Modifications through a Consensus Seeking Process
- Pull requests submitted by individuals that are not Collaborators must be signed off by a Collaborator
- A pull request submitted by a collaborator must be signed off by another collaborator
- If a change appears to not reach consensus, it needs to be reviewed through either the TSC meeting agenda or discussion
  - A question was raised if something goes in and later becomes controversial
  - Need clarity on reversion process: e.g. reversion pre-release, reversion post release, reversion during the release process
  - A person who causes a regression should be given an opportunity to fix it; the group discussed situations in which this opportunity would not be possible.
- The group will review the reversion process on the next call.
- Discussion of version bumps. A major version bump would include: moving to 2.0 from 1.0; either backwards incompatible changes with the API; significant updates maybe in V8 that results in breaks; significant changes that occur that result in breaks.
- API changes requiring a recompile is a major change
- Procedures for alerting people to security vulnerabilities has not been addressed but will need to be.
- A question was raised about an existing security policy
  - Policy exists at https://nodejs.org/about/security/

## Repository Reconciliation Plan
- Currently two separate release streams that would continue in parallel
- A convergence working group would finalize the plan for bringing these back together for one release stream in the next major release
- Convergence working group would be made up of representatives from both projects
- Discussed various options for versioning and naming prior to convergence
- Full reconciliation not until the next major release
- Convergence WG will identify the roadmap to bring the streams together and that there is a process to get to a convergence stream. Need both io.js and node.js teams to agree to work with the Convergence WG.
  - Action Item: Who should be on the Convergence WG? Propose the convergence WG by the next meeting. Convergence WG needs to work with others to ensure the tasks needed to converge get done.
- Participants urged to use the issue tracker for raising issues/concerns with respect to the dev policy.
